src/course-content/first-app/first-01-lesson-exp.mdx, before:

---
title: Explanation 1.1 - Intro
topic: First App
order: 202
---

import ColorBox from "../components-for-content/ColorBox.jsx";
import ColorfulHexBox from "../components-for-content/ColorfulHexBox.jsx";

# Explanation of Activity Set One

This will explain the concepts from the last activity set.

# Keywords, Variables, and Properties

In any language there is a group of keywords.
In our first activity set the JavaScript keywords include import, let, return, and export. 
These are words that have a special meaning.
For instance, **import** is a way of bringing code from libraries or other files to the current file.

A variable name is a way a way of being able to name a value and be able to reference it elsewhere in your code.

```js
// Here is a JavaScript variable
let aVariableName = "Short yet descriptive";
```

An object holds pairs of related data.
The object itself has a variable name.
Within in the object there are key-value pairs called a property - 
where the property name (key) is before the semicolon and the property value (value) is after the semicolon.

```js
// anExampleObject is the variable name for the object
// firstName, lastName, and age are property names
let anExampleObject = {
  firstName: "Mary",
  lastName: "Yu",
  age: 52,
};
```
The convention for naming a variable or property in JavaScript is to use lowerCamelCase that is short yet descriptive.

# Import

At the top of the App.js file there are two import statements. 
The import statements allow us to use code from other people.

In the first code set we imported **React** from the react library and **StyleSheet** and **View** from the react native library.

```jsx
import React from "react";
import { StyleSheet, View } from "react-native";
```

The curly braces in the second import is used to import specific parts of react native library.

# Our App Component

On line 4 to 9 we define our App component.

```jsx
// Our App component
let App = () => {
  return (
    <View style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}>
    </View>
  );
};
```
We create what the app will look like within the return statement of the App component.

We export our App on line 18 to make it available outside of this file.

```jsx
export default App;
```

# The View Component

Components are visual pieces of our app.
So far we have encountered the View component which you can think of as a rectangular box.

```jsx
// The View component
<View></View>
```

Props (or attributes) provide more information to the component. 
The **style** prop connects the component to the styles in the StyleSheet.

```jsx
// The View component with a style prop
<View style={styles.container}></View>
```

Whitespace only has an effect on the result of our code in certain places - like displayed text.
We can use whitespace to make our code more clear.

```jsx
// Limited whitespace
<View style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}></View>

// Same result as the View component above
<View 
  style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}
>
</View>
```

# The StyleSheet

The StyleSheet is an object where you define the style for your app.
This includes colors, sizes, and position of elements within your app.

```jsx
let styles = StyleSheet.create({
  thisCouldBeAnyName: {
    backgroundColor: "#00ffff",
    height: "100%",
  },
});
```

To use a StyleSheet you need to import the StyleSheet, create the StyleSheet, and use the style.

At the top of the file we imported the StyleSheet from the react-native library.

```jsx
import { StyleSheet} from "react-native";
```

Then we make a StyleSheet that defines styles of the app.
We can name the StyleSheet anything, but **styles** is a good default.

```jsx
let styles = StyleSheet.create({
  thisCouldBeAnyName: {
    backgroundColor: "#00ffff",
    height: "100%",
  },
});
```

The name before the colon like **thisCouldBeAnyName** is a property.
To use the style we need to reference the property by using the name of the StyleSheet (ie. **styles**) and the name of the property (ie. **thisCouldBeAnyName**). 

```jsx
<View style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}></View>
```

The curly braces around **{styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}** is to tell the computer to use JavaScript to reference the style property.

# Colors

There is a hexadecimal system for colors that uses the numbers 0-9 and letters a-f.

The hex code for colors uses six hexadecimal values.
Two values for red, green, and blue in that order.
The value 00 would be completely off for the pixel while ff would be completely on.

Scroll over the color buttons to see the hex code for each color:

<ColorBox />

The # sign is a common way to say we are using hexadecimal values. 
When each of the red, green, and blue values are the same, the result is a grey color.

Move the sliders to make the box change colors:

<ColorfulHexBox />

# Onward!

Feel free to go to the home screen to check out more references or navigate back to the code to explore more.
Move onto the next activity set when you feel ready.

Commit message:

Modify directions on overview and first lessons

src/course-content/first-app/first-01-lesson-exp.mdx, after:

---
title: Explanation 1.1 - Intro
topic: First App
order: 202
---

import ColorBox from "../components-for-content/ColorBox.jsx";
import ColorfulHexBox from "../components-for-content/ColorfulHexBox.jsx";

# Explanation of Activity Set One

This section will explain the concepts from the last activity set.
There is no code base to modify through this section.

# Keywords, Variables, and Properties

In any language there is a group of keywords.
In our first activity set the JavaScript keywords include import, let, return, and export. 
These are words that have a special meaning.
For instance, **import** is a way of bringing code from libraries or other files to the current file.

A variable name is a way a way of being able to name a value and be able to reference it elsewhere in your code.

```js
// Here is a JavaScript variable
let aVariableName = "Short yet descriptive";
```

An object holds pairs of related data.
The object itself has a variable name.
Within in the object there are key-value pairs called a property - 
where the property name (key) is before the semicolon and the property value (value) is after the semicolon.

```js
// anExampleObject is the variable name for the object
// firstName, lastName, and age are property names
let anExampleObject = {
  firstName: "Mary",
  lastName: "Yu",
  age: 52,
};
```
The convention for naming a variable or property in JavaScript is to use lowerCamelCase that is short yet descriptive.

# Import

At the top of the App.js file there are two import statements. 
The import statements allow us to use code from other people.

In the first code set we imported **React** from the react library and **StyleSheet** and **View** from the react native library.

```jsx
import React from "react";
import { StyleSheet, View } from "react-native";
```

The curly braces in the second import is used to import specific parts of react native library.

# Our App Component

On line 4 to 9 we define our App component.

```jsx
// Our App component
let App = () => {
  return (
    <View style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}>
    </View>
  );
};
```
We create what the app will look like within the return statement of the App component.

We export our App on line 18 to make it available outside of this file.

```jsx
export default App;
```

# The View Component

Components are visual pieces of our app.
So far we have encountered the View component which you can think of as a rectangular box.

```jsx
// The View component
<View></View>
```

Props (or attributes) provide more information to the component. 
The **style** prop connects the component to the styles in the StyleSheet.

```jsx
// The View component with a style prop
<View style={styles.container}></View>
```

Whitespace only has an effect on the result of our code in certain places - like displayed text.
We can use whitespace to make our code more clear.

```jsx
// Limited whitespace
<View style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}></View>

// Same result as the View component above
<View 
  style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}
>
</View>
```

# The StyleSheet

The StyleSheet is an object where you define the style for your app.
This includes colors, sizes, and position of elements within your app.

```jsx
let styles = StyleSheet.create({
  thisCouldBeAnyName: {
    backgroundColor: "#00ffff",
    height: "100%",
  },
});
```

To use a StyleSheet you need to import the StyleSheet, create the StyleSheet, and use the style.

At the top of the file we imported the StyleSheet from the react-native library.

```jsx
import { StyleSheet} from "react-native";
```

Then we make a StyleSheet that defines styles of the app.
We can name the StyleSheet anything, but **styles** is a good default.

```jsx
let styles = StyleSheet.create({
  thisCouldBeAnyName: {
    backgroundColor: "#00ffff",
    height: "100%",
  },
});
```

The name before the colon like **thisCouldBeAnyName** is a property.
To use the style we need to reference the property by using the name of the StyleSheet (ie. **styles**) and the name of the property (ie. **thisCouldBeAnyName**). 

```jsx
<View style={styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}></View>
```

The curly braces around **{styles.thisCouldBeAnyName}** is to tell the computer to use JavaScript to reference the style property.

# Colors

There is a hexadecimal system for colors that uses the numbers 0-9 and letters a-f.

The hex code for colors uses six hexadecimal values.
Two values for red, green, and blue in that order.
The value 00 would be completely off for the pixel while ff would be completely on.

Scroll over the color buttons to see the hex code for each color:

<ColorBox />

The # sign is a common way to say we are using hexadecimal values. 
When each of the red, green, and blue values are the same, the result is a grey color.

Move the sliders to make the box change colors:

<ColorfulHexBox />

# Onward!

Feel free to go to the home screen to check out more references or navigate back to the code to explore more.
Move onto the next activity set when you feel ready.
